(upbeat music)
Hello everybody, my name is Olavi
and I'm going to demo an app called Sizzy,
I don't know how to pronounce it either.
How many of you have heard about it?
Okay cool, how many has tried it?
Nobody, okay that's good because this
is a good thing to demo it then.
So, sizzy.app is created by this guy called Kitze
on Twitter, and I'm following him so that's why
I have been hearing about this app
for a couple months now.
Quite a lot, because he's posting
all the time about it and I think he's right now
working full time on this app and it's pretty cool.
This project used to be an open source, free
project, web-based program that you could use.
But as the title of this Medium post says
"GitHub stars won't pay your rent",
so they decided to make it then a commercial product.
So, let's first look into their website and what
they claim the app is doing and then I'll show
how it works in reality and I will be talking
a bit about my experiences.
So, Sizzy is a browser for developers and designers
as you can see on the website.
By the way, they have super nice videos,
their release notes are actually videos and those
are super funny as well, and on the website they
have nice videos explaining all the cool features,
but I don't show the videos now because
it's kind of a waste of time.
I'll just quickly glance over the website
so you can see some of the features.
So, the basic view is that you have the same website
in multiple devices and screen sizes at the same time.
And they claim that everything is in perfect sync,
let's see if this video loads here.
So you can see when you scroll, they're in perfect sync.
At least they claim so.
And you can scroll to any element on the page,
you can navigate,
you can edit, you have help reloading
of course, if your project has problems with reloading.
And you have dev tools, which is good.
Yeah, let's see.
This webpage is actually not that good, because
it loads the content lazily, and if your network
is a little bit slow, then you do see blank pages.
And then you can take screenshots,
and here is the pricing.
So, solo is $5 a month, Trio is licensing
for three devices, so if you have three devices,
you have to buy this license I guess.
But yeah, I guess most of us develop on one device mostly.
I think we can dive straight into my demo application
that I created.
So I just made to showing how this works,
it's best to display with a web project.
So, here we go.
We have CC.app running.
By default, it shows you which part you navigate to,
you add the address here,
so it's basically a browser but it shows it
in multiple web views, or multiple screen sizes,
and shows a screen, what do they call it, like,
a screen around a web page,
so you can customize that, so if you don't like
to see the fake device there, you can hide it,
or minimize it, make it smaller.
By default, you have the iPhones first and then
the larger screens, some Androids and iPads,
Macbook, laptop, desktop, whatever.
And you can of course customize these,
so you can go to settings and devices,
and then, no not here, I was wrong,
add device, at least, and organize devices.
So here you can edit them, add more,
and this is nice actually that you have some presets
here so you can just select these and hide if you
don't like to see so many iPhones at the beginning,
you can hide them.
One of the things they claim on the website
was that everything is in perfect sync
which is not the case, at least to my experience.
So when you scroll, it should scroll everything
at the same time, so there was the effect,
it doesn't always, yeah, now it came.
As you see, it's not perfect but at least when
it scrolls everything, it's kind of nice that you can see
that scrolling on all devices.
And I'll try to demo a small thing where this
could be probably useful for somebody.
So here's my nice application, it looks okay because
this is how I designed it, but then when I scroll down
and look at it on, so I want to scroll a bit down,
and look at it on, for example, this iPad.
I think the text is way too small,
but I wouldn't have noticed if I would have just
focused on the iPhone's here.
So I'm just gonna go fix that, real quickly,
with the hack it the font size two rems, change here
let's see, content loading, okay so it made
it actually bigger on the iPhones as well,
but it's fine, and now it looks a bit better.
But, yeah, you can fix it better as well,
this is just a stupid example of how you can fix stuff.
And, okay, so I will look at my slides now,
which are this webpage,
so the good thing about this app is that it makes
it simple and quick to test on multiple devices
as you can see.
And the app actually does one thing,
and it does it quite well,
and it's only focusing on this one thing,
and that's a good thing.
And these are Chrome web wheels, or, yeah,
Chrome web wheels here, so you can use Chrome
web tools to inspect these and that's really cool
because, I don't know, I at least use Chrome,
so I'm most used to using Chrome web tools, and that's cool.
And it works on Linux, as you can see
I'm running Linux, and it has an app image
that I can use on Linux.
And it's customizable, you can, for example,
as I showed you, you can customize the devices,
and then you can customize the themes,
so you can change the background color if you like,
and then you can, here you can, choose not to show
the device frame, and not show
the operating system and browser.
You can show a minimalistic device frame if you'd like to.
Yep, so now I've changed the background color
and yeah, then let's go to some of the cons
in my opinion. Please bare in mind, these are
my opinions and I have been using this
for three days now, or something.
I asked this in Slack, if some of us have been using
this and then nobody answered, and Mattias suggested
to me to try it out and tell you about it.
So, one of the first things is that
it's an electron app, and I think many of us
know that it's a waste of memory.
Actually, yesterday I was developing this demo site
and I had my laptop on my lap and it got too hot
I couldn't continue doing it, so I think it uses
quite a lot of memory, which is not good.
And I showed you, synchronized scrolling does
not work perfectly.
And then one thing that was missing is tabs,
so for example here I added a link to the Sizzy
app page, which opens in a new tab, but when I click
it, it doesn't open in a new tab because this app
doesn't have tabs. So now I am here,
and I have to go back and I can't
just close the tab.
So, that's just one minor detail.
And then these devices, are of course, just emulated
devices, so they try to use the correct user agent
and correct screen sizes and stuff like that
but, of course, you still have to test it on real
devices, you can't trust on this if you really want
to make sure your app works perfectly.
And there are some quirks here, for example,
if I click this, I would expect all these screens to scroll
to the Cons section.
Let's see if I can demo it now,
it doesn't happen every time.
Okay, anyways, there is a bug that all of the other
screens refresh for some reason, and only the one
that I clicked scrolls down.
I don't know why.
I can't demo it now, but it happens quite often.
It's a bit difficult to see when the refresh is happening.
So for example, now it's refreshing, but sometimes
when you're developing locally and you have to compile
stuff and stuff like that happens, it might take a while
so you're not actually sure if it's reloading the page
or not, because you can't see it that well.
That's all from the negative stuff, but then there
are super minor things that I want to mention.
So we're developing an app with Next.js,
and I think the next.js dev mode has a bug that
you can't have more than one tab open,
otherwise it gets slow.
So if you have this, if you're using
Sizzy, then it gets super slow, so I'm actually
not probably going to use this, or we're going
to have to figure out how to fix that bug in Next.js.
This used to be an open source project, now it's commercial.
And there's no free trial, but there's
a money back guarantee for, what was it, 30 days.
I guess no questions asked.
You should just go try it out yourself if you like.
And one thing, just a super minor thing, on Linux
the app image doesn't add the app to the menu,
so I have to start it from the console when I run it.
So then you see some ugly garbage in the console when
you're running it, which I wouldn't like to see.
I could maybe demo some of the features that I didn't
demo yet, which might actually be useful,
so for example you can flip all the,
no, not here, that's the, okay,
so you can change the scrolling of the devices,
but now I can't scroll, yeah, so you have a horizontal
scroll, or then focus on only one device,
and then you can look at one device at a time.
But then you can switch all the devices to landscape
if you like to, but yeah, it took a while
to change the layout.
It might be useful.
Then you can zoom in all of the devices, and then reset too.
That might be useful, and this might be useful
as well if you want to quickly go to, for example,
with the selector, for example, ID Cons, I can navigate,
scroll down to the Cons section if I have an ID.
And this might be useful as well, if you have a lot
of devices down here and then you can filter out devices.
You can, for example, focus only on Android devices,
only on iPads, only on desktop, or something.
And then clear the filtering, I guess somehow, yeah.
That's basically it, do you have any questions or comments?
Thanks for giving us the demo, and it looks like
really interesting software.
Where I see this maybe being useful
is I've gone to a lot of design reviews
recently where we're going through the product
and saying, "Okay, how is it looking
"on all these different screens?"
And I think one of the disadvantages of Chrome
is you can only look at one view at a time.
Yeah.
And also, at least
for me, when I'm switching contacts, right?
Switching devices, it's sometimes not very
obvious, but it seems like it would be quite useful
in that respect, or you're dealing
with the responsive nature.
Yes, and we are actually using a storybook
and we are kind of missing this feature from storybook,
would be nice to have storybook display, multiple devices
at the same time.
Yeah.
But then we can,
of course, navigate to storybook using this,
but I don't know if it will look nice.
I'll have to try.
Sorry, I guess my question would be, do you think
this might be a better product for designers,
or do you feel like it's a much more
developer-focused product?
Like, where's the sweet spot?
Well, they claim it's for developers and designers,
but I would say mostly developers when you are, for example,
developing a site and then you can quickly see how
it renders on different screens.
For example, if you would make something like this,
what I did, I'm trying to have the color change
every time when you have a full 100 viewports,
so if you were to make a mistake there, you would probably
recognize the mistake easily here.
(audience applauding)
(upbeat music)